---
attack_id: T1564.007
name: VBA Stomping
type: sub-technique
parent: T1564
tactics: [Stealth]
platforms: [Linux, macOS, Windows]
url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1564/007
tags: [mitre-attack, sub-technique, T1564.007]
---

# T1564.007 - VBA Stomping (sub-technique of T1564)

**Tactic(s):** Stealth  ·  **Platforms:** Linux, macOS, Windows  ·  **ATT&CK:** [T1564.007](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1564/007)

## Summary
Adversaries may hide malicious Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) payloads embedded within MS Office documents by replacing the VBA source code with benign data.(Citation: FireEye VBA stomp Feb 2020)

MS Office documents with embedded VBA content store source code inside of module streams. Each module stream has a <code>PerformanceCache</code> that stores a separate compiled version of the VBA source code known as p-code. The p-code is executed when the MS Office version specified in the <code>_VBA_PROJECT</code> stream (which contains the version-dependent description of the VBA project) matches the version of the host MS Office application.(Citation: Evil Clippy May 2019)(Citation: Microsoft _VBA_PROJECT Stream)

An adversary may hide malicious VBA code by overwriting the VBA source code location with zero’s, benign code, or random bytes while leaving the previously compiled malicious p-code. Tools that scan for malicious VBA source code may be bypassed as the unwanted code is hidden in the compiled p-code. If the VBA source code is removed, some tools might even think that there are no macros present. If there is a version match between the <code>_VBA_PROJECT</code> stream and host MS Office application, the p-code will be executed, otherwise the benign VBA source code will be decompressed and recompiled to p-code, thus removing malicious p-code and potentially bypassing dynamic analysis.(Citation: Walmart Roberts Oct 2018)(Citation: FireEye VBA stomp Feb 2020)(Citation: pcodedmp Bontchev)

## Role in the attack flow
Used to achieve the **Stealth** objective. An autonomous agent invokes this when its current sub-goal matches that tactic and the target platform is one of: Linux, macOS, Windows.

## Mitigations
- **M1042 Disable or Remove Feature or Program** - Disable or remove unnecessary and potentially vulnerable software, features, or services to reduce the attack surface and prevent abuse by adversaries. This involves identifying software or features that are no longer needed or that could be exploited and ensuring they are either removed or properly disabled. This mitigation can be implemented through the following measures: 

Source: MITRE ATT&CK - https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1564/007
