---
attack_id: T1691.002
name: Reporting Message
type: sub-technique
parent: T1691
tactics: [Inhibit Response Function]
platforms: []
url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1691/002
tags: [mitre-attack, sub-technique, T1691.002]
---

# T1691.002 - Reporting Message (sub-technique of T1691)

**Tactic(s):** Inhibit Response Function  -  **Platforms:** n/a  -  **ATT&CK:** [T1691.002](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1691/002)

## Summary
Adversaries may block or prevent a reporting message from reaching its intended target. In control systems, reporting messages contain telemetry data (e.g., I/O values) pertaining to the current state of equipment and the industrial process. By blocking these reporting messages, an adversary can potentially hide their actions from an operator.

Blocking reporting messages in control systems that manage physical processes may contribute to system impact, causing inhibition of a response function. A control system may not be able to respond in a proper or timely manner to an event, such as a dangerous fault, if its corresponding reporting message is blocked.(Citation: Bonnie Zhu, Anthony Joseph, Shankar Sastry 2011)(Citation: Electricity Information Sharing and Analysis Center; SANS Industrial Control Systems March 2016)

## Role in the attack flow
Used to achieve the **Inhibit Response Function** objective. An autonomous agent invokes this when its current sub-goal matches that tactic and the target platform is one of: any.

## Mitigations
- **M0810 Out-of-Band Communications Channel** - Have alternative methods to support communication requirements during communication failures and data integrity attacks. (Citation: National Institute of Standards and Technology April 2013) (Citation: Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency)
- **M0807 Network Allowlists** - Network allowlists can be implemented through either host-based files or system hosts files to specify what connections (e.g., IP address, MAC address, port, protocol) can be made from a device. Allowlist techniques that operate at the  application layer (e.g., DNP3, Modbus, HTTP) are addressed in [Filter Network Traffic](https://attack.mitre.org/mitigations/M0937) mitigation.
- **M0814 Static Network Configuration** - Configure hosts and devices to use static network configurations when possible, protocols that require dynamic discovery/addressing (e.g., ARP, DHCP, DNS) can be used to manipulate network message forwarding and enable various AiTM attacks. This mitigation may not always be usable due to limited device features or challenges introduced with different network configurations.

Source: MITRE ATT&CK - https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1691/002
