---
cwe_id: CWE-337
name: Predictable Seed in Pseudo-Random Number Generator (PRNG)
type: weakness
abstraction: Variant
status: Draft
languages: [Not Language-Specific]
related_capec: []
url: https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/337.html
tags: [mitre-cwe, weakness, CWE-337]
---

# CWE-337 - Predictable Seed in Pseudo-Random Number Generator (PRNG)

**Abstraction:** Variant  -  **Status:** Draft  -  **CWE:** [CWE-337](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/337.html)

## Description
A Pseudo-Random Number Generator (PRNG) is initialized from a predictable seed, such as the process ID or system time.

## Extended description
The use of predictable seeds significantly reduces the number of possible seeds that an attacker would need to test in order to predict which random numbers will be generated by the PRNG.

## Applicable platforms / languages
Not Language-Specific

## Common consequences
- **Other**: Varies by Context

## Potential mitigations
- **general**: Use non-predictable inputs for seed generation.
- **Architecture and Design, Requirements**: Use products or modules that conform to FIPS 140-2 [REF-267] to avoid obvious entropy problems, or use the more recent FIPS 140-3 [REF-1192] if possible.
- **Implementation**: Use a PRNG that periodically re-seeds itself using input from high-quality sources, such as hardware devices with high entropy. However, do not re-seed too frequently, or else the entropy source might block.

## Related weaknesses
- CWE-335 (ChildOf)

## Observed examples (CVE)
- **CVE-2020-7010**: Cloud application on Kubernetes generates passwords using a weak random number generator based on deployment time.
- **CVE-2019-11495**: server uses erlang:now() to seed the PRNG, which results in a small search space for potential random seeds
- **CVE-2008-0166**: The removal of a couple lines of code caused Debian's OpenSSL Package to only use the current process ID for seeding a PRNG
- **CVE-2016-10180**: Router's PIN generation is based on rand(time(0)) seeding.
- **CVE-2018-9057**: cloud provider product uses a non-cryptographically secure PRNG and seeds it with the current time

Source: MITRE CWE - https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/337.html
